Gospel with you.
Today is no exception.
We are going to be looking a little further into the Christmas story today as we celebrate joy.
And what happened with some lowly shepherds?
Everybody say lowly shepherds.
Talk about these shepherds a little bit this morning as we talk about a shepherd's message of joy.
So again, we're going to be in Luke
the Gospel of Luke chapter 2 verses 8 to 20.
So you could go ahead and be turning over there.
And as you know, we've been putting some focus on our Advent candle wreath over here.
And this morning is no exception.
Thank you, Brooke, for coming and lighting our shepherd candle, our candle of joy here.
We're going to be talking about that this morning.
So we've taken a good, close look at these first two, hope and peace.
Or the preparation candle is what we
put most of the emphasis on last week.
So today we're going to take a closer look at this candle of joy.
Now some may call it the shepherd's candle, and that's fine.
Some may call it the candle of joy, but we're going to zoom in on that part of the Christmas story this morning.
So again, Luke chapter eight, he has, excuse me, chapter two, verses eight to 20.
Luke's got a lot to say here today.
We're going to do our best to take a close look at as much of this
as time will allow.
So if you would, if you have your place, stand with me and let's honor the reading of God's word together.
Amen.
If you got it, say I got it.
Luke chapter two versus eight to 20 reads this way.
Brooke actually just read some of this, but we're going to read this section again and show you some places that we're going to put some emphasis.
But here's what Luke says.
He says, and there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night.
An angel of the Lord appeared to them and the glory of the Lord shone around them and they were terrified.
But the angel said to them, do not be afraid.
I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the people.
Today in the town of David, a savior has been born to you.
He is the Messiah, the Lord.
This will be assigned to you.
You will find a baby wrapped in clothes and lying in a manger.
And suddenly a great company of the heavenly host appeared with the angel praising God and saying, glory to God in the highest heaven and on earth peace to those on whom his favor rests.
When the angel had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherd said to one another, let's go to Bethlehem and let's see this thing that has happened which the Lord has told us about.
So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and the baby who was lying in the manger.
When they had seen him, they spread the word concerning what had been told them about this child and all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds said to them.
But Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart.
The shepherds returned to glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen, which were just as they had been told.
Let's pray again together.
Lord, thank you once again for the words that we have here.
from Dr. Luke as we study this Christmas story together.
So Father, we just ask that you are glorified today.
We're asked that you're magnified.
Father, that you stand alone at the top of this.
And Father, that we're able to praise you.
So we just ask that you remove anything that might be distracting to us even this morning.
And just pray, Father, that we will be able to focus on what it is that you have to say.
So hide me behind the cross today, Lord, so that your glory will shine.
Just give me the words and knowing everything that comes today.
that will be something followed that will praise you.
So Lord, if there's someone that doesn't know you today, we just pray that this story, this Christmas truth that we have followed will be something that will touch their heart and open this avenue, Lord, for them to come to know you as Savior.
So thank you, Jesus.
We love you and we praise you for these and all things.
And it's in your precious name, we pray.
Amen.
Maybe seated, thank you.
Well, this past Sunday we spoke about John the Baptist.
We remember this.
Hopefully we do.
He was delivering this good news of great joy to what we think was likely thousands of people.
People would have been lined up from near and far to be able to come in here, what John the Baptist had to say about Jesus Christ.
And as John was delivering this message, he and Jesus were now adults.
They were in their 30s.
They had come to this time in their life.
And what they were doing was marking the very beginning of the ministry of Jesus Christ here on planet earth, so to speak.
So our passage today is going to take us all the way back to the nativity where all of this
began of course it began Jesus has always been but this began this part of the story begins with the birth of Jesus Christ this was a different beginning and this is where Jesus was born into the world now on this night we can see that the message of good news was delivered we were talking about John the Baptist just a moment ago in the throngs of people but this message that was given on this particular night came from some unlikely sources and it came to a very small group of people a very small group
of people, a totally different audience.
This message was delivered by one single solitary angel.
Did you see that?
Just one.
That's all it took.
Just one angel appeared and gave this message to these shepherds.
It was delivered to another unlikely group, we'll call them.
We called them lowly shepherds just a few moments ago.
That's what they were considered as.
They were in the middle of their watch and this angel appeared.
So you could just imagine how this went.
They were just going about their jobs.
Most people would have been considering this job that they had to be very much an undesirable job.
Nobody wanted to be a shepherd.
Nobody wanted to be dirty all the time, not have a place to go and bathe and all of these kinds of things.
It was just undesirable.
It would have entailed long and even dangerous hours that they would have had to have spent in the field doing what they do.
They would have stood guard all hours of the day, all the night against any one or any animal that might want to come and harm one of the sheep that was under their watch care.
This is what their job was.
Their shepherds were to defend the sheep against these kinds of attacks.
They were helpless.
These sheep were.
So they counted on the shepherd to give protection for them.
That's what their job was.
A shepherd would care for them.
a shepherd would tend to them.
He would meet their every need.
They would patch up any wound that they may have.
They would treat them through any sickness or illness that they may have.
They looked after them.
They would sometimes have to actually leave the flock.
The shepherd would.
He would have to leave the flock in order to actually go and track down one of the sheep that had wandered off.
You ever thought about how a sheep might just wander off and the shepherd has to go find him?
Well, that's what part of their job was.
These shepherds would love.
They would care
for their sheep.
Now, it might be hard for us to understand this.
We've never been a shepherd.
But the shepherd would get involved with each sheep and they would build this relationship of trust with the sheep and with the entire flock of sheep that were there.
Now, on that night, again, these shepherds, they were just going about their business.
They were just doing their job.
Nothing different about the night.
Everything was kind of status quo.
They were doing their thing protecting these sheep may have been taken a nap somewhere.
They were just trying to keep up with this flock that had been entrusted to them.
They didn't have much else going on in their life.
They were considered by most to be second class citizens.
They basically really just lived in these fields in which where they were tending the sheep.
This is where they dwelled.
There were no conveniences for them, no place to bathe.
No place to participate in the ceremonial laws of that day that actually required the washing of hands.
If you read the stories, you'll know that they would have been able to not do anything.
And there was what we would consider to be or what some would consider that in that day to have been good people of that day.
And I say that loosely, but they wouldn't look down their nose at these shepherds.
They didn't care much for them.
In fact, they were despising them for the most part.
no one really wanted to be in the company of a shepherd.
Now I find this interesting, and maybe you do too, but it's just an interesting part of the story here, the use.
And it's lowly as they were, as despised as they were, as dirty as they were, likely how smelly as they were, as rejected by society as they were, this small group of shepherds, again, who were just going about their jobs, being known as outcasts,
were the very ones who heard the most important proclamation ever made and they heard it first.
Isn't that interesting?
I find that very interesting.
They heard it before anybody else did.
And in these few verses I believe that we can see a few things that these shepherds have been able to show us.
So I want to go through these for you.
First thing we can see when we're taking a look at these, the first of the three things is their reaction.
the way these shepherds reacted to this angel appearance.
Let's look again at verse nine.
It says, an angel of the Lord appeared to them and the glory of the Lord shone around them.
And they were, here's the reaction.
They were terrified.
They were scared to death.
And I believe that this mood that they had just going about their jobs, just doing their thing, from all of that going too terrified, that was a quick mood change for them.
I believe that it happened on a dime for those shepherds when this angel just appeared to them out of nowhere.
Now, if you and I had been on that field in that evening, our reaction most likely would have been close to the same.
We most likely would have been terrified as well.
I feel sure that this was startling for them.
But I also believe not only was it startling for them, I believe that it was a glorious sight for them to behold at that particular time.
This angel that appeared out of nowhere was a sight for them to see just something to a spectacle so to speak, but it was so glorious that it was frightening to them at the time.
Well, this angel was quick about it, and he said, do not be afraid.
Did you see that?
First thing he told him, don't be afraid.
He reassured them that he was bringing good news that was going to cause all the people to have a response of great joy.
Do not be afraid.
and we heard this before.
We've heard it many times.
Fear not or do not be afraid is one of the main themes that we see throughout the Christmas truth and actually throughout all of the Bible.
We see where it said time and time again do not be afraid.
In Luke chapter one verse 13 we also see where an angel of the Lord appeared to Zachariah telling him to not be afraid because why his wife Elizabeth would be pregnant with John the Baptist.
Don't be afraid.
There was another angel sighting that announced something that seemed impossible at the time.
We know of this sighting is the angel Gabriel appearing to marry the mother of Jesus, this virgin girl, Luke chapter one, verse 30.
What did he say to her?
He said, do not be afraid.
Don't be afraid.
He announced to her that she was going to give birth to the very son of God, the Messiah.
An angel also appeared to Joseph and he said, to not be afraid.
In Matthew chapter one, verse 20, he said this to Joseph.
He said, but after he considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, did not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife because what is conceived in her is from the Holy spirit.
So we see this theme
of do not be afraid, particularly this morning as we're talking about this Christmas story.
Do not be afraid.
And it's evident throughout the Word of God, this good news, this glorious good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ was first heard by these shepherds.
Good news that we cause great joy.
And again, this good news is being talked about this morning as the very gospel
of Jesus Christ.
For these shepherds instead of fright, they were receiving joy.
The same joy is the same joy that you and I have today in Jesus.
We've heard the good news.
We've heard the gospel of Jesus Christ.
There's joy in calling on the name of Jesus Christ to save us from our sins isn't there.
These shepherds who were chosen first to hear this proclamation
of the gospel were terrified when it began.
But this angel, though, immediately changed their reaction.
Did you notice this?
He changed the reaction from utter fear to sheer joy.
They praised the Lord with this whole host of angels that were now there together and they had come together to join them in praising the one and only God.
So then this reaction of what was now joy was going to lead them to something else.
They had their reaction of fear.
Then they've had their reaction of joy.
Now they're going to lead themselves into a response.
Notice with me in verses 15 and 16.
When the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, let's go to Bethlehem and let's see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about.
So they hurried off, found Mary and Joseph and the baby who was lying in the manger.
Now I don't know about you.
But when I saw this part of the passage, what I saw from this was the fact that when they heard the Gospel, they hurriedly responded to it.
Did you see this?
They didn't debate it.
They didn't consider two or three timing options.
They didn't make that kind of plan.
They just simply made a decision to go and see.
It's what God's Word tells us.
They weren't going there to verify what they had been told.
They believed it.
They never doubted it to be true.
They only wanted to be part of what this glorious life changing event was.
These shepherds, they wanted to get there as fast as they possibly could.
I have envisioned them running towards Bethlehem as much as they could so that they could praise this God child who was now being announced as the Messiah.
They had an immediate response to the gospel of Jesus.
Listen, I'd love to see this in our world today, wouldn't you?
An immediate response to the gospel.
I would love to see this in our world.
I would love to see this in our churches.
I would love to see this anytime the gospel is presented that somebody would hurriedly respond to it in a positive way and take Jesus as their Lord and Savior.
There's people in our churches every Sunday.
that hear the speaker there, the pastor, the preacher, present the gospel that need to respond to it, but they just choose not to.
There are lost people that are in need of a Savior who have heard this gospel time and time and time and time again that do not respond for whatever reason.
They're living without this joy that these lowly shepherds were able to experience on that night that this angel, this glorious angel that first frightened them, was now living the joy in them.
If they would just only respond to the gospel, these people that don't know Jesus, they would also experience this great joy that comes with a transformed life.
Gives joy beyond measure.
Listen, church.
There's tremendous joy in a life this filled with Jesus Christ, amen.
Tremendous joy.
We must respond to Him.
We must not wait and say, you know what, I got time.
I got all the time in the world.
Listen, the time that we have church is right now.
That's the time that we have.
This is what God told us that we have.
We're not guaranteed another minute.
We have right now, this is the moment that God has given us.
We must respond to him and he will give us joy that we are unable to ever explain.
Our lives don't have to be filled with doom and gloom.
Do they?
They don't.
There's unspeakable.
There's unshakable.
There is unmovable joy that comes through the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Think of it this way with me talking about these shepherds.
They visited the manger.
They had already experienced their own reaction.
They had already given their own response.
Now they were going to make a change in their reality.
For me as a pastor, I love to watch a new Christian in action.
How about you?
Love to just watch their demeanor and how they just go about their business.
And it doesn't happen nearly enough, but for the new Christian, there's a longing there to share the gospel and to tell them
what Jesus has done for them.
There's a passion there for them to go and tell others about Jesus and the changes that He made in their life.
Who they once were is now not who they are.
Completely different.
They want everyone to know it.
The reality is, is their life has been completely changed when they come to know Jesus as their Savior.
I heard a pastor once say that
The Christmas story could be summed up with really two simple statements.
Come and see, go and tell.
The Christmas story, isn't that what it says?
It absolutely says that.
You see, this is what it's all about.
These shepherds that we're talking about, they certainly thought so.
Come and see, go and tell.
This is what they did.
Verses 17 and 18 said,
that they spread the word to everyone who could hear and they were amazed by what they were being told.
They had a change in their reality.
You see, our change comes when we come to know the one who gives us a new reality.
Amen.
In lighting this shepherd candle this morning, I reminded of this great joy that comes through the gospel.
of Jesus Christ, and I believe that God used these three lowly shepherds for what would become a tremendous purpose, even for us today.
These shepherds that God used actually gave Jesus an illustration to use some 30 years later when he met up with John the Baptist.
In John chapter 10, verse 11, Jesus tells us this.
He says, he identifies himself in a way that says, I am the good shepherd.
It's how he identified himself.
The Good Shepherd, what does he do when he lays down his life for the sheep?
We spoke earlier about what a shepherd does, and if a shepherd, in fact, is a Good Shepherd, then he will watch over his flock to keep them away from these attacks by the enemy.
A Good Shepherd will defend his sheep from all attackers.
He will heal the wounded.
He will heal the sick sheep.
A good shepherd will leave the flock.
He will go and find a law sheep and retrieve him from whatever snare that he may have been entrapped in.
A good shepherd will love his sheep and he will gain their trust and he will protect them at all costs.
You see, church, have you made the connection here yet?
Have you heard this connection?
This is exactly who Jesus Christ is to all of us.
He is the good shepherd.
All of these things and even more than this,
is what and who he is in our lives.
What a blessing that is.
Having him in our lives is what gives us real joy.
It gives us a reason to react and a reason to respond and then have a new reality with him as these shepherds did.
Jesus, who is the good shepherd, says four times in that passage from John that he would die for even one of the flock.
You and I are who he's talking about here this morning.
He's a good shepherd.
We are all his sheep.
He died for all of us.
We are his.
We belong to him.
That's who we are as Christians.
He cares for us in ways that we just can't simply understand how he cares for us and the love that he has for us like a sheep.
You and I are defenseless without our shepherd.
We need him.
We need Him in our lives.
We need Him to be our Savior.
Even though we're prone to wander off, His sheep sometimes do the good shepherd.
He will pull us right back into the fold, into the flock.
He will use us just the way that He did with these shepherds from the nativity and He will use us joyfully so that we can come and see and go and tell.
The Lord is the shepherd.
of all of His people.
He tells us again so many times, have no fear.
Do not be afraid.
He tends to us.
He knows us.
The Bible tells us that He knows the number of hair on our heads.
He knows everything about it.
Our deepest, darkest things He knows.
He tends to us.
He knows us.
And as we learn to trust Him more and more, we begin to know Him better.
and better.
Isn't this what we long to do?
To know Jesus better and better.
Matthew chapter 18 gives us a parable of the wondering sheep.
Matthew explained that this is how the father is.
And he explained that a shepherd had 100 sheep in his care during the course of the day.
He lost one.
He retraced his steps while leaving the other 99 on the hill to go and look for the one.
If he was able to find it, listen, he's truly happier about that one sheep than the other 99 that did not wander off.
Isn't that amazing to think of that way?
You see, Jesus wants all of us who are His sheep, you and I, to be safely under His watchful care.
Through this incarnation of Jesus Christ, through living a sinless life, Jesus rejoices even when one lost sheep is found.
What a blessing that is.
He rejoices.
Every angel in the heaven rejoices when a lost sheep is found and saved under the blood of Jesus Christ.
As a lost sheep, we don't have a defense.
A lost sheep is helpless, living with no hope like we talked about just a couple of weeks ago.
But when this good shepherd passes by,
When Jesus passes by, He's going to pick them up.
He's going to take them and wrap them around His neck.
Take them right back to the security that only He can provide.
Every head bound this morning, every eye closed.
I just want to give you this as we get ready to close this morning.
I want you to know this.
There's joy in the fold of Jesus Christ.
Perhaps you're here.
Maybe you're like one of these lost sheep that have wandered off trying to find your way, trying to figure out which way is next.
How do I get back to where I need to be?
Maybe you're here this morning.
This joy that we're talking about is something that you have never really experienced.
You might think you've had some joyful times, but you don't really understand what true joy is.
sent you today.
Maybe you don't know what it means to.
Leave being a lawsuit.
To being found by Jesus.
This explains you today.
I want you to know this.
This good shepherd.
Jesus Christ.
He's ready to pick you up.
He's ready to wrap you around his neck and take you joyfully into a place of safety that only he can provide through his salvation about what he did for us on the cross.
Do you want to experience his joy today?
The way of invitation this morning, our altar is open.
If you'd like to come this morning and pray around our altar, you are welcome to do that.
If you'd like to come and have me pray with you, I'd be willing to do that.
Just come and take me by the hand.
I pray with you, but there is joy in Jesus.
Don't be all just one.